(CNN)Texas Gov. Greg Abbott paused any further phases to reopen the state on Thursday and issued an order to ensure hospital beds be available for Covid-19 patients.

Abbott's moves came as his state, California and Florida -- the three-most populous -- set records for new coronavirus cases daily amid fears of "apocalyptic" surges in major Texas cities if the trend continues.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis also indicated that his state would not be moving to relax present restrictions.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom declared a budget emergency to free up $16 billion to fight the pandemic, according to a release from his office.
The state could pause further reopening of its economy -- and even "toggle back" -- if health officials continue to see increases in infections and hospitalizations, Newsom suggested at a press conference Thursday.
And the head of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the US has only counted about 10% of coronavirus infections. That might mean as many as 20 million Americans have been infected.
Officially, coronavirus has killed at least 122,481 people and infected more than 2.4 million nationwide, according to Johns Hopkins University.
Florida and Texas announced Wednesday that they had recorded more than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases the prior day, a new daily record. California reported more than 7,000 cases, obliterating a record hit a day earlier.
Hospitals in California have seen a 32% increase in patients with the coronavirus over the last 14-day period, reaching an all-time high since the pandemic began, Newsom said. The number of patients in intensive care units has reached a record high after increasing 19% over the last two weeks.
Florida passed 5,000 again on Thursday, according to new state data.
Florida, Texas and California account for 27.4% of the 328 million people living in the US, according to the latest US Census Bureau estimates.
'A temporary pause,' Texas governor says
Abbott previously had said he wanted to move to the next phase and be fully opened by July 4.
"The last thing we want to do as a state is go backwards and close down businesses. This temporary pause will help our state corral the spread until we can safely enter the next phase of opening our state for business," Abbott said in a release.
Coronavirus infection may make pregnant women more severely ill, CDC says
Coronavirus infection may make pregnant women more severely ill, CDC says
Earlier this month, he announced the state was moving into its Phase III, meaning most business could operate at up to 50% capacity.
He suspended all elective surgeries in hospitals in four counties that are home to the cities of San Antonio, Dallas, Houston and Austin. The counties have had "significant increases" in Covid-19 hospitalizations, Abbott said.
Any procedure not immediately necessary to correct a serious medical condition or preserve a life will be postponed.
"As we work to contain this virus, I urge all Texans to do their part to help contain the spread by washing their hands regularly, wearing a mask, and practicing social distancing," Abbott said in a statement.
In California, the budget has gone from a $21 billion surplus to a $54.3 billion deficit in a matter of months, decimated by the economic demands of the pandemic.
Newsom's proclamation clears the way for the legislature to use $16 billion rainy fund to respond to the pandemic. Expenditures include personal protective equipment, medical equipment, and services to protect vulnerable populations.
20 million might have been infected
The CDC has been looking at antibody tests done across the country to see how many people had past infections that were not diagnosed at the time, said director Dr. Robert Redfield. It is seeing many more cases than have been reported officially.
"A good rough estimate now is 10 to 1," Redfield told a media briefing.
This is partly because testing had been limited to people who were seriously ill and showing up in hospitals or nursing homes. But now, as more people are being tested, it is becoming clear that a large percentage of people did not have any symptoms, or mild symptoms, Redfield said.

Some states are extending restrictions
Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey said at a press conference he wouldn't talk much about "gating criteria" for lessening restrictions, saying "Arizona is on pause."
Arizona is seeing the highest number of new cases per capita of any state in the country. It's had more new cases per capita than any state has had besides New York or New Jersey, according to a CNN analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University.
"It's growing, and it's growing fast across all age groups and demographics," Ducey said.
The state has added about 2,700 new cases per day over the seven days that ended Tuesday. Adjusted for population, that's about 38 new cases per 100,000 people per day.
In Louisiana, Gov. John Bel Edwards issued a new proclamation extending the Phase 2 restrictions for another 28 days.
"Some in Louisiana may be done with Covid, but I promise you that Covid is not yet done with Louisiana," Edwards said. "I especially want to call on the young people of our state, those ages 18 to 29, to take this illness seriously."
DeSantis in Florida indicated that the state won't be changing restrictions anytime soon
"We are where we are," the governor said at a press conference. "I didn't say we're going to go on to the next phase." He added later: "We never anticipated necessarily doing anything different, in terms of the next phase at this point."